On the 6th of November of 1985 the Supreme Court of Colombia, otherwise known as the Palace of Justice, was overrun by a faction of rebels at approximately 11:35 in the morning. The rebels belonged to a guerilla group more formally known as the M-19, short for the 19th of April Movement. At the time, Colombia’s president was Belisario Betancur, a proud member of Colombia’s Conservative Party. [a]


The event was sparked due to the creation of the National Front, a treatise enacted by the Liberal and Conservative parties of Colombia in which they would agree to alternate presidency amongst their respective parties. The joint front was promoted by both parties as an alleged means of establishing peace after “La Violencia” - a ten year civil war in Colombia that claimed over 200,000 lives from 1948 to 1958.[b]


While the National Front formally began in 1958, it was the Colombian presidential election of 1970 that ignited M-19’s rebellion. At this point in Colombian history, the National Front had gained a lot of ire from Colombians as they felt stripped of their political autonomy with little improvements to their quality of life to show for it. Many Colombians thus felt that a shift from the National Front was necessary, choosing to vote for this hope in the form of leftist ex-president Gustavo Rojas Pinilla - a candidate from the new party known as la Alianza Nacional Popular.


Pinilla thus went head to head with the National Front’s conservative candidate: Misael Pastrana Borrero. The vote was incredibly close, but the government concluded that Borrero won the campaign by a mere 2,000 votes. While the government was firm in their results, not all parties were in agreement as several radio stations and newspapers ran reports stating that Pinilla was the rightful winner, leading to mass outcry from Colombian citizens who felt the election was stolen.[c]


The M-19 thus formed in response to the government’s mishandling of the election by a majority of college-age citizens who vowed to take the president to trial for his involvement. They thus stormed the Palace of Justice and took a plethora of hostages, some of which were officials incredibly high up in the Colombian government. One of the most notable, Alfonso Reyes Echandia, was the Chief Justice of the Colombian Supreme Court. Echandia attempted to initiate communications with President Betancur via radio broadcast to negotiate a ceasefire, but the President entirely refused to answer his calls. Instead, the government sent the army to lead a brutal assault on M-19 at the Palace of Justice.[d]


Tanks and special military units were sent in to take the Palace of Justice back from M-19, yet they were entirely unprepared for the crisis. Helicopters came in with soldiers ready to storm the premises yet were not even given the rope necessary to safely rappel down to the building, forcing them to instead jump, a course of action which resulted in several injuries. Tanks and other heavy artillery were also sent to the site of combat, resulting in the Palace of Justice being burnt to ash as explosions from both sides of the conflict razed the palace to the ground, leaving over 98 victims dead. [e]


Although the event was one of immense importance to the Colombian people, it was heavily covered up by the media. While several reporters were live on the scene relaying updates, the head of the Ministry of Communications, Noemi Sanin, chose to put news transmissions on pause to instead prioritize the airing of a local soccer game. Many citizens viewed this as an act of censorship as no news stations were thus allowed to air updates, sparking further outcry.[f]


The event now lives in infamy as one of the darkest moments in Colombian history, only further cemented in its position due to the government’s treatment of the few surviving hostages. Over 10 survivors went missing after being rescued and subsequently arrested by the Colombian government due to alleged suspicions of collaboration with M-19. [g]The families of said victims are still fighting for justice to this day as evidence of the Colombian government’s involvement in the disappearances has only been declassified as recently as September 19, 2023.  [h]