Which president did M-19 attempt to take to trial?
A.) Hernando Esparza
B.) Gustavo Rojas Pinilla
C.) Misael Pastrana Borrero
D.) Belisario Betancur


Why did the M-19 believe that Pinilla was the true winner?
A.) Due to his alliance with the National Front
B.) The government reported that he was the winner 
C.) Several media outlets reported that he was the winner 
D.) Because of how close the vote was


Who was Alfonso Reyes Echandia?
A.) Ex-President of Colombia
B.) Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
C.) A member of the Conservative Party
D.) A reporter at the Palace of Justice


When did the Siege on the Palace of Justice take place?
A.) 6th of November, 1985
B.) 10th of January, 1958
C.) 11th of December, 1989
D.) 19th of April, 1986


What broadcast interrupted live reports on the siege?
A.) A conference with the president
B.) A local soccer game
C.) A live call with the Chief Justice
D.) A rerun of a cooking show


Who was the head of the Ministry of Communications during the siege?
A.) Ana Rojas
B.) Maria Pinto
C.) Glaidys Pinilla
D.) Noemi Sanin


What did the Colombian chief justice notably do during the siege?
A.) Attempt to negotiate a ceasefire
B.) Assist the guerillas with finding files
C.) Relay updates of the situation live via radio broadcast
D.) Attempt to escape the building


What led to the burning of the Palace of Justice?
A.) Explosives used both by M-19 and the Colombian government
B.) Acts of arson committed by protestors
C.) The sole use of tanks by the Colombian government
D.) Attacks on the palace by the National Front


What happened to the survivors of the siege?
A.) They were granted positions in government
B.) They founded advocacy groups to educate citizens about the event
C.) They were taken into custody by the government
D.) They went into witness protection


Why did both parties state they established the National Front?
A.) To keep third party candidates from winning elections
B.) To establish peace after Colombia’s civil war
C.) To unite both parties into one
D.) To consolidate power amongst both groups